
> 1- First, I think the language used is a real issue. The style is very
> cumbersome and impossible to follow. Just one example: On page 3, the authors
> used "inducing an inverse Kazantsev range...". This unfortunately does not
> mean anything.  I am sure the authors meant "inducing an inverse Kazantsev
> cascade..." but this is not what was written.  Language issues similar to this
> one are found everywhere in the manuscript and I am sure the editor agrees
> with me.

The editor doesn’t appear too concerned.  We can of course revise, but the lack
of specific points here beyond range vs cascade makes it look not too serious.

> 2- Second, I think the code used here, namely the PENCIL code, is a huge
> problem. The PENCIL code is used routinely for subsonic turbulent problems,
> for example in the Sun, and is a very accurate and validated tool to model
> such phenomena. On the other hand, it is not suited for strong shocks.
> For one, the
> energy equation (Eq. 3) uses the entropy, which is motivated in solar physics
> to model accurately convective motions.  But in the context of interstellar
> supersonic turbulence driven by strong supernova shocks, this is not at all
> the state of the art. Energy will not be conserved accurately enough.
>  Moreover,
> the very surprising choice of the authors to turn off all viscosity terms is
> clearly even more problematic in this context. Indeed, although the PENCIL
> code
> is not by far the best code to do this, it could still make a reasonable job
> using the explicit viscosity shown in the equations.  But the authors turned
> viscosity off, only keeping the 6-th order viscosity terms that are clearly
> not
> suited for strong shocks.

%We need to be more explicit that we also have multiple shock diffusivity terms
%rather than just relying on the citation to the shock paper, but the criticism
%doesn’t hold water beyond that.

This is not correct. We have validated the implementation of the pencil code of
our convergence proportional diffusivities for handling shock discontinuities in
Gent, F. A., Mac Low, M. M., Käpylä, M. J., Sarson, G. R., & Hollins, J. F.
2020, Geophysical and Astrophysical Fluid Dynamics, 114, 77 and these are
included explicitly in Eqs 1, 2 and 3. The hyper diffusion is applied only to 
suppress instabilities at the grid scale, and the terms involving zeta resolve
the strong shocks. Also, the application of cooling and heating, which are a
crude simplification of the physical processes in the context of a monatomic
gas, exclude energy conservation of the ISM.

We now make the inclusion of shock handling explicit in the text and the
correction terms for momentum and energy conservation, which are applied to
compensate for artificial mass diffusion. The reference to Section 2 using only
Eq 2 and 4 may have confused the referee, so we have separated the comment to a new paragraph and explicitly refer to the simplified model.

> 3- Third, section 2, although a very interesting experiment in principle, does
> not make sense in my opinion.  Why turning off Equation 1 and 3 in that
> context?
> It does not make sense for compressible turbulence with heating and cooling
> to turn these absolutely fundamental processes off. I think also that a key
> reference is missing in that section, namely the work of Federrath et al.
> (2011, 2014) who performed the same study.
 
The objective of Sect. 2 is to clarify the differences between tangling and
dynamo amplification, given some debate within the community about whether
Balsara's results exhibit tangling only, due to the imposed field. For this
only a simple experiment is required and we relate our physically motivated
experimental results to this for confirmation that they are indeed dynamo.
%FAG TODO:
The Federrath papers are indeed relevant, and we include them in our 
commentary, although they do not model the ISM nor SN explosions.

%Again, we need to be clearer that we are presenting a simplified model to study
%a specific physical process.  Neither Federrath et al 2011 or 2014 examine the
%magnetic tangling regime.  Citing them in our introduction would certainly be
%appropriate, though, particularly as the 2014 paper makes a strong general case
%for highly compressible flows having turbulent dynamos in general, which you
%could argue our model is a special case of including ISM characteristics and
%supernova driving.  (Also it will make our referee happy, who is quite likely
%CF)
 
 
> 4- Fourth, in the introduction, a very important reference is missing, namely
> the work of Rieder and Teyssier (2016, 2017) who reported a clear SSD in a
> rotating, supernova-driven turbulent, dwarf galaxy disk and observed a clear
> exponential growth of the field, when the resolution was high enough,
> addressing directly the major science goals outlined in the introduction.


This appears to be similar to Uli’s model, with a maximum resolution of dx = 9
pc and no convergence whatsoever (see Figure 9 in the 2016 paper, right hand
side).  It is certainly worth mentioning in the Introduction along with Uli’s
papers.

> 5- The results presented in section 4 are very problematic. No clear
> exponential growth is observed, although exponential growth of the magnetic
> energy is a clear and accepted sign of ongoing dynamo processes.  The magnetic
> energy growth looks very erratic and is, in my opinion, a consequence of
> various numerical instabilities due to the poor choice of the PENCIL code
> parameters, the most serious one being (as I said) to completely remove linear
> viscosity.

%We need to think about whether to include an explicit viscosity model in the
%current paper rather than holding them for Paper 2.  Since the referee doesn’t
%understand shock viscosity, it may not be necessary.

The erratic behaviour is physical and due to the evolving thermal properties of
the ISM and the low (0.2x) supernova rate. We see the same qualitative behaviour
in models with varying levels of physical viscosity, which we include for the
benefit of the referee and editor, but which we reserve for later publications.
As the SN rate increases the filling fraction of the hot gas becomes 
dominant and the kinematics more spatially uniform, so that the energetics 
become more steady. Consequently the exponential growth is more uniform and 
faster.

We have also taken care to illiminate numerical effects, which is why we have
implemented the hyper diffusivity in addition to the shock-dependent
diffusivity. We have included the kinetic and magnetic energy spectra, 
specifically to demsonstrate that the flow and magnetic field are well resolved,
with the energy cutoff clearly applying well away from the grid scale. 
Exhibiting the classical Kolmogorov and Kazentsev energy ranges in all the
spectra is evidence that the fields are well resolved and behaving 
physically.

> 6- Section 4 is very cumbersome to read. It has no structure and the message
> is
> a juxtaposition of random comments on the numerical results.  This is probably
> a consequence of the spurious nature of the numerical solution.
 
Well, we could maybe revise a bit, but this is hardly a show-stopping critique.

 
> 7- In the introduction and in the conclusion, the authors refer to the seminal
> work of Balsara.  Balsara's results, although much older, appear much more
> reliable than the present work.  Balsara used a shock-capturing, energy
> conserving MHD code, ideal for strong supernova-driven shocks.  The observed
> SSD was also quite clear and convincing, as opposed to the present paper, with
> a nice and clear exponential growth of the magnetic energy. The fact that this
> paper could not reproduce Balsara's results is a very serious worry.

We opted to use lower supernova rates in these experiments to remain in a 
regime which retains a typical distribution of warm and hot phase ISM. In a 
confined periodic box there is no escape for the over pressured gas, as in a 
real galaxy, so the ISM is subject to thermal runaway, in which the filling 
fraction of hot gas exceeds 90%. For the benefit of the referee we provide
results, in which we replicate the experiments of Balsara et al. The have runs 
with 1pc and 2pc resolution. As can be seen from the plot our 1 and 2pc runs
do show clear exponential growth, but much faster and saturating far higher
than Balsara. The explanation is due to the improved accuracy and lower
diffusivity of the Pencil Code. To verify this we included a run with 4pc
resolution, which matches closely the results of Balsara's 1pc run.
Note, that in this case there is a subsequent dynamo burst after 40\,Myr. We do
not know what would have happened with the Balsara experiment, because their
resources were more limited and they ceased the experiment believing the
plateau to indicate saturation of the small scale dynamo.

In addition, the Balsara experiments used 8x the solar neighbourhood rate for
SN injection. This results in the rapid saturation of the simulation by hot gas
and consequently a steadier kinetic energy profile. Compare the kinetic energy
profiles in our plot between the Balsara replicas and the model in our paper. 
We also provide snapshots of temperature for the 8x, 1x and 0.2x SN rate, and
from this you will see that the characteristics of the ISM are substantially 
altered with the former having gas mainly hotter than 10^7 K.
our plot 

Given how Balsara’s results have been called into serious question in the
field, this comment makes me think that the referee is out of touch with the
issues being discussed.  We can delicately make this point to the editor. 


Agreeing to what Mordecai wrote, ... just adding ..., given that we don't have
a real access to the kinematic phases of real galaxies, we can't be sure if
there was ever any neat exponential phase for volume averaged brms type
quantity ... 'accepted' does not necessarily make it a truth! Reality can
indeed be far too complicated, and I don't know how anybody can be sure about
exponential phase for the entire galaxy.

In conclusion, I think the authors should address all these very important
issues and substantially revise this paper.

I don’t think this will be too difficult.  We will accompany it with a stiff
letter to the editor pointing out that the referee isn’t nearly as
knowledgeable out the field as they believe...

Comment on We have stated explicitly in the text ...  Simplify the text We have
monitored the spectra and there are no numerical growth, the growth appears
physical.  Seek duplication and confusing language.  Reproduce Balsara setup
Run 64^3 Duplicate Balsara simulations Compute the energy of the hyperdiffusion
contribution to the energy, refer to paper how much the energy losses are from
shock.

Check gloob package to reverse engineer check the snapshot location on curves

